README.md, before:

# knv-elemental
Knave's Elemental Pearls: Minecraft datapack for more pearl types

**Minecraft Version 1.15.2**

This Minecraft data pack adds 14 new types of pearls alongside the current ender pearl.

There are pearls across 5 elemental types: Fire, Air, Ice, Stone, and Ender.

There are three flavors of pearls: the basic pearl, a "Greater" flavor, and an "Ultimate" flavor.

## Summary of Added Pearls

### =*= Fire Pearls =*=
**Fire Pearl**: creates fire where it lands

**Greater Fire Pearl**: turns into a [ghast] fireball

**Ultimate Fire Pearl**: "Firestorm", throws a fireball which continuously spawns firebombs


### =*= Air Pearls =*=
**Air Pearl**: Lightning strikes where it lands

**Greater Air Pearl**: More lightning strikes where it lands, creates AOE cloud that launches entities

**Ultimate Air Pearl**: "Tornado", creates a column of AOE clouds that harm and toss mobs to the sky


### =*= Ice Pearls =*=
**Ice Pearl**: Creates cube of ice which breaks after a while

**Greater Ice Pearl**: Turns ground to ice and slows mobs, destroys ground blocks

**Ultimate Ice Pearl**: "Ice Bridge", creates a bridge of ice, harms mobs that pass over it


### =*= Stone Pearls =*=
**Stone Pearl**: creates small explosion on impact

**Greater Stone Pearl**: Hardens obsidian to bedrock. Also transforms Stone->Magma->Lava and Cobble->Gravel->Sand->Glass

**Ultimate Stone Pearl**: "Grav Bomb", huge timed shockwave explosion 


### =*= Ender Pearls =*=
**Ender Pearl**: Already in base game, no changes

**Greater Ender Pearl**: Works like the regular pearl, except if landed near a mob, switchs position of mob and player

**Ultimate Ender Pearl**: "Dimension Shift", Destroys large area of land, tp's all mobs to location and spawns enderman. All destoryed items tp to player


## Upcoming Development
Currently there is no way to craft the pearls. Current work is to incorporate aqcuiring the pearls through a mix of crafting and villager trading.

Commands to follow to give pearls manually to players.

Commit message:

added crafting of standard pearl types

README.md, after:

# knv-elemental
Knave's Elemental Pearls: Minecraft datapack for more pearl types

**Minecraft Version 1.15.2**

This in-progress Minecraft data pack adds 14 new types of pearls alongside the current ender pearl.

There are pearls across 5 elemental types: Fire, Air, Ice, Stone, and Ender.

There are three flavors of pearls: the basic pearl, a "Greater" flavor, and an "Ultimate" flavor.

## How to Craft
Step 1: Construct an energy frame by throwing an item frame, redstone, and quartz on the ground.

Step 2: Place a dropper **face up** and place the energy frame on this dropper.

Step 3: Place an ender pearl in the energy frame, the dropper should transform into a **Pearl Combinator**

Step 4: Use the Pearl Combinator to craft the elemental pearls. Currently only the standard pearls are craftable, recipes for the Greater and Ultimate versions to follow:

Fire Pearl: lapiz in the corners, with fire charges surrounding a stack of eight ender pearls in the middle
Air Pearl: lapiz in the corners, with feathers surrounding a stack of eight ender pearls in the middle
Ice Pearl: lapiz in the corners, with ice blocks surrounding a stack of eight ender pearls in the middle
Stone Pearl: lapiz in the corners, with stone blocks surrounding a stack of eight ender pearls in the middle


## Summary of Added Pearls

### =*= Fire Pearls =*=
**Fire Pearl**: creates fire where it lands

**Greater Fire Pearl**: turns into a [ghast] fireball

**Ultimate Fire Pearl**: "Firestorm", throws a fireball which continuously spawns firebombs


### =*= Air Pearls =*=
**Air Pearl**: Lightning strikes where it lands

**Greater Air Pearl**: More lightning strikes where it lands, creates AOE cloud that launches entities

**Ultimate Air Pearl**: "Tornado", creates a column of AOE clouds that harm and toss mobs to the sky


### =*= Ice Pearls =*=
**Ice Pearl**: Creates cube of ice which breaks after a while

**Greater Ice Pearl**: Turns ground to ice and slows mobs, destroys ground blocks

**Ultimate Ice Pearl**: "Ice Bridge", creates a bridge of ice, harms mobs that pass over it


### =*= Stone Pearls =*=
**Stone Pearl**: creates small explosion on impact

**Greater Stone Pearl**: Hardens obsidian to bedrock. Also transforms Stone->Magma->Lava and Cobble->Gravel->Sand->Glass

**Ultimate Stone Pearl**: "Grav Bomb", huge timed shockwave explosion 


### =*= Ender Pearls =*=
**Ender Pearl**: Already in base game, no changes

**Greater Ender Pearl**: Works like the regular pearl, except if landed near a mob, switchs position of mob and player

**Ultimate Ender Pearl**: "Dimension Shift", Destroys large area of land, tp's all mobs to location and spawns enderman. All destoryed items tp to player


## Upcoming Development
Currently there is no way to craft the greater / ultimate pearl varients, however they are fully implemented. Current work is to incorporate aqcuiring the pearls through a mix of crafting and villager trading.
Commands to follow to give pearls manually to players.
Instructions to follow on how to install the data pack and associated resouce pack.
